---
layout: posts
title: Long Time No Post
date: 'December 23, 2017'
---
It has clearly been over a year since my last post and I thought writing in my blog was long overdue. Over the course of the past year I have been extremely busy working for Universal Studios as a Test Engineer in Orlando, while my house was in West Palm. All the traveling to and from work either daily or weekly sucked up a lot of the time I would usually use towards development, but I can say that while I was on the job I learned a variety of different technologies and enjoyed working with my team; just not the commute. I got to work with a back end code base comprised of Node JS and Javascript which helped me to deepen my understanding of Javascript as well as learning Groovy and Api testing using Ready Api.

I also had the chance of working as a Front End Dev. During this short term contract, I got the chance to work with Wordpress, Php, and Javascript. It had been a long time since I even looked at Wordpress and it took me a while to get acclimated to it again. Through this experience I was able to get more comfortable with taking a PSD and turn it into a functional web site.

After that contract, I finally decided it was time to start revisiting some my personal projects which I had not touched in a long time. The first one was my clone of Trello, which you can see at the following <a href="http://reacttrello.jayzamazing.com">link.</a> I will say that this project took me a very long time for various reasons. The first reason this project was challenging was due to previous interviews. You are probably asking why would previous job interviews influencing my personal projects? The second is because I wanted to start working on cleaning up previous project as well as possibly working on additional projects.

Well, my previous project which I called <a href="http://restaurantpos.jayzamazing.com/">Restaurant POS</a> was looked at strictly as a front end project when I was interviewing due to its use of <a href="http://feathersjs.com/">Feathers JS</a>. In some of those interviews I tried to explain that in order to use Feathers JS, you needed a basic understanding of middleware functions in order to do things like authentication or using populate with Mongoose. After trying to explain the project away, and getting turned away from several positions for lack of experience I decided that my next project would steer clear of Feather Js and would strictly use Node Js and Express in the back end.

My Trello project was already created as a single project using Feathers Js as framework, using Mongo for the database and React/Trello on the backend. It took me a while to decide how I was going to reorganize my project but I finally decided I liked the project organization of <a href="https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/">create-react-app</a> on the front end and the <a href="https://expressjs.com/en/starter/generator.html/">express-starter-generator</a>. Afterwards I separated the project into two projects and put them up on github. For the backend I stripped out all of the models and routes and created some middleware to deal with authentication. Rebuilding the backend was pretty easy once I decided on the project structure.

The front end on the other hand, took a while longer than I expected to put together. The way the front end dealt with data had been deprecated and needed to be updated. So I had to look at normalizr to figure out how it was now being used. I also had to deal with small updates in React like going from React.createClass to React.Component. I also tried to emulate the way that Trello did some of the drop downs and modal pop ups along with introducing Redux Form to my project. It took me a while to get some of the basic functionality down, but I am satisfied with the project for the time being. I will probably work on some additional functionality for the project in the future.

So what am I working on now? Well for the time being I am starting to go back to earlier projects and changing their structures and doing some clean up. For the time being I am working on converting the Restaurant POS project from a Feathers JS / Angular 1 project to a Node JS Express project on the back end and React / Redux project on the front end with separate repositories. I also plan on creating some small video game later this year using <a href="http://phaser.io/">Phaser</a> and maybe look into Machine Learning just for curiosities sake.
